SATHYA GUNASEKARAN:
So I'm really
going to be on TV, right?
Like, now, you're not
going to cut it out.
[LAUGHTER]
JAKE: Yeah, yeah,
well, it's YouTube.
It's not real TV.
SURMA: You know what?
You are going to be on
TV if you're casted.
Otherwise, it's just--
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah, right.
SURMA: That's good enough.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE: So we're
professional viewers.
SURMA: Totally.
JAKE: We've been doing
this a while now.
SURMA: Literally
since yesterday.
JAKE: We're going to give
you the first question
that we've given everyone.
Who are you, and why?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: I'm Sathya.
I work on V8 at Google.
And it's the engine
used in Chrome and Node.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Which engine?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: It's
a JavaScript engine.
MATHIAS BYNENS:
Oh, there you go.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Yeah.
SURMA: I mean, come on.
JAKE: Who's doing the
interviewing here?
MATHIAS BYNENS: I just--
what's the engine.
JAKE: We'll get to you.
MATHIAS BYNENS: OK.
MATHIAS BYNENS:
I'll shut up now.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: And why?
Because I don't know better.
SURMA: That's a legit reason.
That's an actual legit reason.
JAKE: Now you may speak.
MATHIAS BYNENS:
Oh, OK, thank you.
Yes, so I also work on V8.
I'm a developer on the V8 team.
And yeah, so V8 implements
JavaScript features as well as
WebAssembly functionality.
It's all part of
the same engine.
And it chips in Chrome, and
Node, and other embedders
like Electron.
JAKE: I like how he
skipped his name.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Oh,
yeah, my name is Mathias.
JAKE: So this is
both your first I/Os.
SURMA: Which is surprising.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Yes.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah.
JAKE: And you both spoke at your
first I/O. So what were you--
SURMA: Full house?
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah, yeah,
yeah, it was a full house.
I was impressed actually.
SURMA: How did you
get so many people?
What did you talk about?
MATHIAS BYNENS: Modern
JavaScript features.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Right.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Turns out a lot
of people are using JavaScript.
Who knew?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Right?
JAKE: When are they going
to accept the bb-scripts?
Are we going to get
more features there?
MATHIAS BYNENS: No, we need
to feature parity, I think.
JAKE: I like ReDimming arrays.
That's what I like.
SURMA: Did we ever
support it in Chrome?
JAKE: Nope.
SURMA: That's sad.
JAKE: It was only ever IE.
MATHIAS BYNENS: That's so, yeah.
JAKE: And even
they got rid of it.
So OK, run us through some
of these new features then.
MATHIAS BYNENS: OK, so--
SURMA: What's your favorite?
MATHIAS BYNENS:
--one big new thing--
well, what's my favorite?
That's a really
difficult question.
SURMA: It's got to
be unicode, isn't it?
No.
MATHIAS BYNENS: No, it depends
on what you mean with new.
One of the features that
has been in the pipeline
for a bit longer is modules.
And maybe it's not super
cool to talk about modules
because there were
in ES2015, I guess,
if you look at the
syntax parts only.
But only as of today, they're
available in all major web
browsers, which is
pretty exciting.
And then there's Node.js,
where they're still
working out how modules
should really work natively
by default.
JAKE: What is the state of that?
Because I've stayed away
from that whole thing.
The community seemed
very angry internally.
And I was-- I kind of
checked out with it.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah,
because in the file section--
SURMA: Javascript
community's always angry.
JAKE: But it got into
browsers pretty much
without any problem.
MATHIAS BYNENS: So there's an
experimental implementation
in Node behind the flag.
And it only supports modules for
files with the mjs extension.
I suppose that's where a lot
of people get kind of upset
a little bit because people are
used to the .js extension with
JavaScripts.
But in a way, I
think it makes sense,
because you need to
make the distinction
between regular
scripts and modules
anyway because they're
treated a different way.
They're interpreted
in a different way.
Modules, you scripts by
default. So they're strict.
They're in StrictMode
by default.
And there's other
differences as well.
Yeah, it's even
stricter than that.
And they have import and export,
like the static variants only
work in modules, not
in regular scripts.
So--
JAKE: If I create a
constant inside a module,
does that go on
the global scope?
Is that one of the differences?
SURMA: That's one of the
things I can never remember.
MATHIAS BYNENS: It doesn't
go into global scope.
It doesn't go into global
scope in script mode either.
JAKE: In normal scope either.
MATHIAS BYNENS: No.
JAKE: Oh, I got
some reading to do.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
JAKE: Yes, yes, you do, Jake.
[INAUDIBLE]
MATHIAS BYNENS:
But we recently had
a conversation about
something similar
because you know about
[INAUDIBLE] and the block scope
bindings.
But the same thing happens
for classic iterations,
for example.
They're also lexical.
So that means if you have a
class in the global scope,
it's not actually
globally available.
It's available within
this same script text.
But it's not a patch to, like,
the window object, for example.
JAKE: You have to assign it.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah.
It's like--
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN:
I mean, that's even
how we implement it in V8.
We rewrite the class declaration
as a class expression
with an assignment
in a lap variable.
SURMA: No way.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Yeah, so.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yes way.
SURMA: It's all just
syntactic sugar, isn't it?
And then you write that
to just being a function,
whereas in the
prototype, probably not.
But-- [INAUDIBLE] at the start.
Right?
MATHIAS BYNENS: We bottled it.
Yeah, we called it desugaring.
And it happens in JavaScript
engines all the time.
SURMA: All right.
JAKE: OK, so you've got modules.
What else have you got?
What else is new?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: I'm
excited about class fields.
Like private fields
now, that's--
SURMA: In classes?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN:
Yeah, in classes.
SURMA: [GASPS]
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: So
that's something that's--
JAKE: Whoa, wait.
Is that in Chrome?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Yeah,
it's behind a flag in Chrome.
I have it.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Sathya
actually implemented this.
But it's still behind
a flag actually.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: It's
still behind a flag.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Disclaimer.
JAKE: But still,
that's something people
can play with, remember.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Yeah.
So normally,
Javascript always uses
underscore to denote that
it's private by convention.
But the language
doesn't enforce it.
Right?
So you could still access that.
And we've seen, like, people
accessing private APIs
from React and, like, Node.
So with private fields, you
don't have that problem.
So instead of using underscore,
you can just use the hash sign.
You create a property
or assign to a property.
JAKE: So it's like
this.hash thing?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Yep.
JAKE: And you can only
access that within--
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN:
Within a class body.
So outside a class body,
it throws a type error.
JAKE: And does it
still work, like, say,
if I'm in a set timeout?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Mm-hmm.
JAKE: I guess you're
using arrow functions.
I can still access it there.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: No,
it needs to be in the--
well, if the set time by
itself is in the class body,
then sure.
JAKE: Then it's fine.
OK, OK, so it's got--
SURMA: Is there any way to break
that rule with, like, reflect
or something?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN:
No, it's hard private.
SURMA: Wow, OK.
JAKE: That's great.
MATHIAS BYNENS: And it's
not just private fields.
It's only just
class fields itself.
It's useful by itself because
now, you no longer need
a constructor necessarily.
If you just want to
initialize some fields,
you can now do it as
outside of the constructor,
just as part of the class--
SURMA: So I can just do like
let x semi-colon in the class.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Without a let.
Yeah.
SURMA: The first time I met you,
it's because you are the one,
at that point, still working
on implementing dynamic import.
And to me, dynamic
import is, like,
one of the biggest changes--
JAKE: It's so good.
SURMA: --since we were
thinking about modules.
JAKE: I remember-- on
W3C mailing lists, loads
of arguments about how
we could do async script
loading of all different
APIs, because there
was like those big free
script loading things.
There was like LABjs required.
And everyone disagreed
on how to do it.
So it's just so nice to see
the language come along and go,
no, it's just like that.
That's the import.
You're done.
Off we go.
We've got promises now.
Problem solved.
SURMA: A way to import, boom.
JAKE: I'm done.
So I remember, when you
joined, I got a bit jealous.
Well, not when you
joined, but later,
because as soon as
you joined Google,
you got invited into
the secret, specter,
meltdown club that I
didn't even know existed.
And then later on, it's
like, hey, I knew all along,
ha ha ha ha ha ha.
So what was that like
then, to just join and be
thrown into that world?
MATHIAS BYNENS: It was
mostly very frustrating
because I couldn't talk about
this to anyone, including
my own manager, or my manager's
manager, or anyone in my--
SURMA: You couldn't even talk
to your manager about it.
MATHIAS BYNENS: No.
I mean, I was spending a
lot of time working on this
and helping out with this.
But I couldn't include it in
my weekly reports of stuff
that I had worked on.
So I had to somehow look
productive without being
able to mention all this stuff.
JAKE: You just make
up product names.
MATHIAS BYNENS:
Yeah, pretty much.
SURMA: Super secret Product X.
JAKE: Yeah.
[LAUGHS]
MATHIAS BYNENS: No, I
just couldn't mention it.
But like, yeah, it's
a little unfortunate.
V8 got caught in the middle of
a storm there because, I mean,
we're the compiler.
Right?
We generate code dynamically.
So--
SURMA: It's kind of relevant.
MATHIAS BYNENS: --things
could go wrong there.
SURMA: Yeah.
It's out in the
open now at least.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah,
out in the open.
And we've been working
on mitigations,
I mean, for months now, even
before it was made public.
So yeah, we have
this wiki article
that documents all
these mitigations
and how people can enable them.
And whether you
want to do so really
depends on the kind
of embedder you are.
SURMA: Yeah.
MATHIAS BYNENS: So a lot
of people forget that V8--
SURMA: So just to be
clear, for most developers,
these things are not relevant
because the embedder is Chrome,
or Node--
MATHIAS BYNENS: Exactly, Yes.
SURMA: --or some, I guess,
Electron or these things.
As a developer,
that's not something
you need to worry about.
Right?
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah, so
these host environments
have to decide whether they
basically run untrusted code,
like on the web, where
you visit a website,
and you run random JavaScript.
It could be from anywhere.
It could be code that is
included from a third party
through that website.
You don't know what's
going on there.
SURMA: That's not
even that rare.
I mean, that happens
all the time.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah,
it happens all the time.
It's not rare at all.
But that's completely different
from the security model
that Node.js has, for example,
where the idea is that you're
running code that you trust.
You run a web server
that you wrote.
And sure, I mean, you
include some MPM modules
that you installed,
but the idea is
that you trust these modules.
Otherwise, you don't add
them as dependencies.
So Node, you generally run
trusted code on the web.
It's the Wild West.
SURMA: It's a free fall.
MATHIAS BYNENS: It's
completely different.
So they're just completely
different security models.
And we have a flag
now that allows
you to switch between
the two modes of safety.
JAKE: Because there's
some performance penalty
if you use it.
That's the reason, right?
SURMA: Yeah, I've seen some
graphs about some servers
integrate the specter and melt
down, mitigated pretty quickly,
obviously, like servers.
And then, yeah, or up or down.
However you want to look at it.
JAKE: Depends where the axis is.
Performance went
town, times went up.
Yeah, pretty much.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah,
it's a little sad.
But ultimately,
security of users
is much more important than
any kind of performance metric.
SURMA: I mean, you say that.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah.
JAKE: [LAUGHTER]
But is it really?
The answer is, yes, it is.
[LAUGHTER]
So while we've got
the two of you here,
there's a proposal in JavaScript
that we're very excited about.
SURMA: Oh, right.
JAKE: And one that we're
also excited about,
but it's being made
into a kind of face-off,
we're going to say.
SURMA: In the left-hand corner.
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: Like, double colon.
JAKE: I like Pipeline.
It's OK.
[LAUGHTER]
MATHIAS BYNENS: It's OK, wow.
You're really selling it, dude.
JAKE: I see what it solves.
It seems very complicated.
But I see what it solves.
But I want the ability to--
oh, we don't have
a video about this.
I want the ability
to import methods
that will be called on
their class so the idea
you get the tree shaking
thing all happening for free.
And it's the bind operator
that lets us do that.
And [INAUDIBLE],, you
know what I'm saying,
it's one of the other.
Why?
[LAUGHTER]
Can we not do that?
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN:
Do you want--
MATHIAS BYNENS: I'll
let you take this, Sath.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: Go for it.
[LAUGHTER]
SURMA: No, but I mean,
you could start with--
you are aware of both
of these proposals.
Right?
As an implementer, do
you have a preference?
Is there something
where you think,
this is stupid to
implement, this is easier?
Or do you think, this has more
side effects than the other?
Is there anything that--
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN: No, as far
as implementation is concerned,
I'm OK with both.
They're both easy to implement.
So it really goes to like--
JAKE: You're very diplomatic.
SATHYA GUNASEKARAN:
[LAUGHS] It really changes
the ergonomics of the language.
And it complicates it
because we add more syntax.
So there's a syntax budget
that we're constantly aware of.
And we don't want to exceed
and add more [INAUDIBLE]
to the language.
SURMA: Can we remove syntax
to free up the budget?
JAKE: Do we need plus?
Do we really need plus anymore?
SURMA: I'm down
with removing plus.
Semicolons, people
don't want them anyway.
[LAUGHTER]
JAKE: That's fine.
I'll give up semicolons
if I get binds.
Yeah, I'm OK.
MATHIAS BYNENS: You can
pretty much reimplement
plus by using minus.
So what's the big deal?
JAKE: See?
Minus, minus, there you go.
Brilliant.
Do we just need to get
rid of one operator
to get the bind operator.
Is that OK?
SURMA: It's two
characters, right?
JAKE: Two characters.
So we get rid of
semicolons as well.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Oh,
yeah, there we go.
JAKE: And job done.
All right.
No, but seriously, is there
a reason why things like bind
aren't really being taken
forward as much like--
SURMA: Well, I guess
our bottom line
was bind is a much less
intrusive change because it's
just-- that's just
a de-sugaring.
It just desugars
over the bind call,
while a pipeline, in
its different forms that
are in the proposal, does
some magic and also has--
especially the smart versions,
like the question mark.
MATHIAS BYNENS: Yeah that's
one problem with pipeline.
You want positional arguments,
and you want to say,
OK, I want to fill
out this argument here
as I pipe it through.
And that's where
it becomes hairy.
SURMA: I thought we could
take the poop emoji instead
of the question mark.
It would make the code
much more enjoyable.
MATHIAS BYNENS: I
would be OK with that.
Like, yeah.
JAKE: OK.
SURMA: It said for 14 nights.
And it was just
like, you know what?
The "teen" isn't [INAUDIBLE].
It's just a fortnight.
JAKE: Whoa.
I think you might be right.
[LAUGHTER]
It's just one of those
words I've always used.
SURMA: You think it's like
the night in the fort.
You spend 14 nights in the fort.
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: [LAUGHS] I mean, sure.
That's actually a more fun
definition than just 14 nights.
JAKE: I think yeah,
that would be right.
Well done.